Step 1: Connect to Data
Open Tableau Desktop.
Connect to Your Data Source:
Click Connect on the left sidebar.
Choose Text File and load your vgsales dataset into Tableau.
Step 2: Create a Basic Visualization
Create a New Worksheet:
Click on the Sheet tab at the bottom of the screen.
Drag Fields to Shelves:
Drag Year to the Columns shelf.
Drag Global Sales to the Rows shelf.
Drag EU Sales to the Rows shelf.
This will create a line graph visualization.
Change Visualization Type:
In the Show Me panel on the right, select a bar chart or any other type of visualization that suits your needs.
Step 3: Format the Chart
Format Axes:
Right-click on the Global Sales axis and select Format.
In the Format pane, adjust the font style and size as needed.
Add Titles and Annotations:
Click on the chart title area and enter a descriptive title, such as Global Sales by Year.
Add annotations by right-clicking on the data point you want to highlight, selecting Annotate → Mark, and clicking OK.
Step 4: Add Filters
Add a Filter for Year:
Drag Year to the Filters shelf.
Choose the range of years you want to display (e.g., 2000-2016).
Step 5: Create Calculated Fields
Create a Calculated Field for Sales Category:
Right-click on Global Sales and select Create → Calculated Field.
Name the field Global Sales - EU Sales.
Enter the formula:
[Global Sales] - [EU Sales]
Click OK.
Add Calculated Field to Visualization:
Drag Global Sales - EU Sales to the Rows shelf.
This will display Global Sales and Global Sales - EU Sales over the Year.
Step 6: Create a Parameter
Create Parameter:
Name the parameter Select Genre.
Set Data Type to String.
Set Values to List and add values like "Action", "Adventure", "Shooter", or pull values from the Genre field.
Create a Calculated Field for Sales by Genre:
Name the calculated field Sales by Genre.
Use the formula:
IF [Genre] = [Select Genre] THEN [Global Sales] ELSE 0 END
Build the Visualization:
Columns: Drag Year.
Rows: Drag Sales by Genre.
Use the Select Genre parameter to choose the genre you want to visualize (e.g., Fighting).
